feat(cfx.ini/page): new doc (#440)
citizenfx/fivem-docs: content/docs/client-manual/citizenfx.md

---
title: CitizenFX.ini
toc_hide: true
---

## How to find this file

> - Press Win+R, enter `%localappdata%\FiveM\FiveM.app\CitizenFX.ini` into the Open field, and click OK.

Reviewer: Should probably also remind the user that if they didn't install FiveM in their `C:/` drive it will be wherever they opened the FiveM.exe from.

Author: Yeah forgot to add that part, good catch.

> - This will open a text file in Notepad.

Reviewer: `in Notepad` -> `in the systems default text editor`

## Structure

This file should have the following:

```
[Game]
IVPath=[Your game path]
```

> It's always important to keep the GTA V path to the right location. You are free to change to manually when you move the game path. This will tell FiveM where to get GTA V. (Please note that this is the path for the folder and not the game it-self). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is the path to the GTA 5 installation on your local machine. You shouldn't need to modify this variable as FiveM will ask you to update the path automatically if it doesn't detect the GTA5 binary.
```

You can also add the following in this file:

### Game build

```

> SavedBuildNumber=XXXX

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SavedBuildNumber=1604
```

```

> Where `XXXX` will represent the build number you wish. You can find the list [here](docs/server-manual/server-commands/#sv_enforcegamebuild-build). This will launch FiveM app directly to the build asked. This is good if you play on a specific server to avoid the "build transition".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can find the list of game builds [here](docs/server-manual/server-commands/#sv_enforcegamebuild-build).

This will launch FiveM directly into the specified build so you don't have to transition when connecting to servers on the specified build.
```

### Update channel

```

> UpdateChannel=XXXX

Reviewer: This should probably have default variables instead of placeholder text

Author: Hmm I'll let @4mmonium decide for that, while I agree, I think explaining from placeholder is easier.

Reviewer: I don't agree with this, I think providing the default value for each ini variable makes more sense as it shows how it is actually used, users should be able to infer based off of the information provided.

In places that you can't (like ones that are basically bools) you provide an explanation for how to change it (like how I did here: https://github.com/citizenfx/fivem-docs/pull/440/files#r1630585240)

Author: I'll replace with latest versions of everything then.

> UpdateChannel=XXXX

Reviewer: ```suggestion
UpdateChannel=production
```

Author: Reference to https://github.com/citizenfx/fivem-docs/pull/440#discussion_r1630613913

```

> You can replace `XXXX` by:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
UpdateChannel can have the following values:
```

> - **production** that represent the stable version of FiveM (this does not contain latest updates)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **production**: this is the stable channel for FiveM
```

> - **beta** that represent the "stable" version between latest updates on canary and production. This allow you to test some of the newest features.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **beta**: this is the version between latest updates on canary and production which will have some of the latest features after they've been tested on canary. This version isn't guaranteed to be stable you should only use it if you're a developer or want to test new features.
```

Beta isn't "stable"

> - **canary** that represent the latest version of FiveM wich can be unstable. This is not recommanded unless you know what you are doing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **canary**: this channel will have the latest build of FiveM. This channel is unstable, **do not use this build unless you're fine with issues, crashes, etc.**.

### Enable Geforce Experience Overlay

```
DisableNVSP=0
```

> This will let you enable the Geforce Experience Overlay.

Reviewer: For things like this it might be better to display a huge banner as there is a reason its disabled by default :)

Author: A warning banner? Like a "enabling this might cause some game performance issue"?

> This will let you enable the Geforce Experience Overlay.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**NOTE**: Enabling GeForce Experience Overlay has been known to cause crashing issues, which is why it is disabled.

This will tell FiveM to not block the GeForce Experience Overlay.
```

Author: If following https://github.com/citizenfx/fivem-docs/pull/440#discussion_r1630613619, I'll do a special warning for this.

### Enabling dumps

```

> EnableFullMemoryDump=1

Reviewer: This should have the default variable

```suggestion
EnableFullMemoryDump=0
```

Author: I mean the option is mainly to active it so easier for the user to copy directly. Regular user wouldn't have that at first.

```

> You can read more about this [here](https://forum.cfx.re/t/enabling-and-uploading-full-client-dumps/1138940). Make sure to not have disable `DisableCrashUpload`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Setting this to `EnableFullMemoryDump=1` will enable Full Memory dumps which is useful for diagnosing game crashes.

These dumps are typically very large (anywhere from 1-10gb), if you have these enabled make sure to clean then out from time to time.

You can read more about this [here](https://forum.cfx.re/t/enabling-and-uploading-full-client-dumps/1138940).
```

`DisableCrashUpload` won't cause any issues here full dumps don't get uploaded as they're usually too big.

Author: Yes right, didn't saw https://github.com/citizenfx/fivem/blob/1b01a54ea0803c8e06ef7e15bb1ae3a3d64de085/code/client/launcher/MiniDump.cpp#L1649C26-L1649C41. Good catch.

### Windows version not supported

```

> DisableOSVersionCheck=1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
DisableOSVersionCheck=0
```

This should be the default value

Author: Reference https://github.com/citizenfx/fivem-docs/pull/440#discussion_r1630617302

```

> This will disable the OS version check on Windows. Please note this may lead to issues and it's not recommanded unless you know what you are doing. You can see more [here](https://github.com/citizenfx/fivem/blob/1b01a54ea0803c8e06ef7e15bb1ae3a3d64de085/code/client/launcher/Main.cpp#L682).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default FiveM checks if you're using using an outdated version of Windows 10 as older versions don't have certain [ABIs](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Application_binary_interface) that FiveM uses.

The minimum supported version of Windows 10 is version 1703 (aka "Creators Update").

Setting this to `DisableOSVersionCheck=1` will disable the popup that happens when you start FiveM on an outdated machine.
```

### Disable crash dump upload

```

> DisableCrashUpload=1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
DisableCrashUpload=0
```

```

> This will disable the crash metrics upload automatically on FiveM path. You can see more [here](https://github.com/citizenfx/fivem/blob/1b01a54ea0803c8e06ef7e15bb1ae3a3d64de085/code/client/launcher/MiniDump.cpp#L1646).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Setting this to `DisableCrashUpload=1` will disable the game from automatically uploading the crash dumps to the Cfx Sentry.
```

---

> Please note that this file shouldn't be modified if you don't know what you are doing. For any issue join our [discord](discord.gg/fivem).

Author: Yeah I agree

---
title: CitizenFX.ini
---

## How to find this file

- Press Win+R, enter `%localappdata%\FiveM\FiveM.app\CitizenFX.ini` into the Open field, and click OK.
- This will open a text file in Notepad.

## Structure

This file should have the following:

```
[Game]
IVPath=[Your game path]
```

It's always important to keep the GTA V path to the right location. You are free to change to manually when you move the game path. This will tell FiveM where to get GTA V. (Please note that this is the path for the folder and not the game it-self). You can also start a second FiveM instance with:

```

> PathCL2=[Your game path]

Author: Isn't this required when having a second FiveM instance? Or this add automatically on -cl2 shortcut?

> PathCL2=[Your game path]

Reviewer 2: As tens0rfl0w says up above, this is for a secondary client path (i.e. launched using `-cl2`), it's optional and should only be used for different install paths. 

Reference [here](https://github.com/citizenfx/fivem/blob/1b01a54ea0803c8e06ef7e15bb1ae3a3d64de085/code/client/shared/Utils.Win32.cpp#L138).
